=head1 NAME

cddbd, cddb.cgi - the CD Database Server is a program designed to allow remote access
of xmcd-style Compact Disc database entries via the Internet. Xmcd is an
X11/Motif-based CD player utility written by Ti Kan, which, as of version
2.0 supports remote access of CDDB protocol servers. While xmcd was the first
application to allow access to a CDDB protocol server, there are now hundreds
of applications supporting the CDDB1 protocol.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

There are several usage modes:

B<cddbd> I<-m>|I<-M>  [I<-dqv>]  [I<-a access_file>]

B<cddbd> I<-s port|'default'> [I<-dqv>] [I<-a access_file>]

B<cddbd> S<[I<-uef>]>
S<[I<-l|-t rhost>|I<'all'> | I<-T rhost>|I<'all' hh[mm[ss[MM[DD[YY]]]]]>]>
S<[I<-c check_lev>|I<'default' fix_lev>|I<'default'>]>
S<[I<-p rhost>|I<'all' file>]> S<[I<-dqv>]> S<[I<-a access_file>]>

B<cddbd> I<-C rhost>|I<'all'> I<cddbp_command> I<proto_lev>

B<cddbd> I<-k>

B<cddbd> I<-P>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The CD database server has several "generic" run-time options that you can use to
override the default behavior for debugging purposes. 
Except for these the options for one mode cannot be mixed with that of
another mode.


=head1 OPTIONS

The following options are valid in conjunction with any other combination
of options except for B<-C>, B<-k> and B<-P>:

=over 8

=item B<-d>

Put the server in debug mode. All log output is routed to
stderr rather than the log file when this option is invoked. This is useful
for debugging when the server can't find the log file for some reason.

=item B<-v>

Put cddbd in verbose mode. This causes cddbd to generate
more verbose log output.

=item B<-q>

Put cddbd in quiet mode. All log output is suppressed
when this option is invoked. This option nullifies the B<-d> and B<-v>
options.

=item B<-a> I<access_file>

Force cddbd to use the specified pathname as the location
of the access file, regardless of the path that was compiled into the server.
This is useful when cddbd can't find the access file or when you want to
test out an alternate access file without disturbing the installed version.

=back

The following options are used with the daemon I<mail filter mode>:

=over 8

=item B<-m>

Put cddbd in mail filter mode. In this mode, it expects
one full email database submission, complete with mail header, to be fed in
through standard input. The entry will be processed and placed in the I<"post">
directory for later inclusion in the database, if it is valid.

=item B<-M>

Works much the same as the B<-m> option, but does not actually
post submitted entries. Instead, confirmation is echoed to the sender if
the submission is acceptable. This mode is useful for testing client
applications that wish to develop and test new entry submission capability.

=back

The following options are used with the server I<standalone mode>:

=over 8

=item B<-s> I<port>|I<'default'>

Put cddbd in standalone server mode. It forks and becomes
a background process, listening at the specified port number for connections.
If the word I<'default'> is specified instead of a port number, then the
daemon uses the most appropriate default. It will first check /etc/services
for a port number, and failing that, will use the built-in default of port
8880.

=back

The following options are used with the various daemon database I<management
modes>:

=over 8

=item B<-c> I<check_lev>|I<'default'> I<fix_lev>|I<'default'>

Check the integrity of the database and possibly
correct some problems. It requires two numerical arguments,
which correspond respectively to the level of strictness to be
employed when verifying database entries and when fixing the database.
Currently there is only one check level implemented, so this value
must always be 1, while the fix level is a value in the range from 1
to 3., Fix level 1 causes no repairs to be made to the database, level
2 causes permissions and links to be fixed, and level 3 additionally
causes the removal of files judged to be invalid. Fix level 3 should
not be employed unless you are sure the database contains no invalid
entries that can be salvaged. Level 1 or 2 should be used first to
determine if some files can be hand-repaired.

=item B<-e>

Check for entries that should possibly be 
linked. It will print an exhaustive list of entries that have fuzzy matches 
with other entries in the database. This option does not cause them to actually
be linked - this must still be done by hand.

=item B<-u>

Initiate an update of the database with
new entries from the I<"post"> directory. It updates the transmit history
file for remote sites.

=item B<-f>

Build the fuzzy matching hash index, then
exit. This option is best used in conjunction with B<-d>, otherwise
any errors encountered during the creation of the hash file will go to
the error log.

=item B<-p> I<rhost>|I<'all'>

Remotely put the sites or motd-file to the named 
remote site, or all remote sites if the word I<'all'> is specified. For this to 
work, the put-permission must be granted on the receiving server.

=item B<-l> I<rhost>|I<'all'>

Obtain log status information for the named
remote site, or all remote sites if the word I<'all'> is specified.

=item B<-t> I<rhost>|I<'all'>

Transmit all outstanding new database
entries to the specified remote site, or all remote sites if the word
I<'all'> is specified.

=item B<-T> I<rhost>|I<'all'> I<hh[mm[ss[MM[DD[YY]]]]]>

Reset the transmit history for the named
remote site, or all remote sites if the word I<'all'> is specified. The history
is reset to the specified time, or to the current time if the word I<'now'>
is specified instead. Any portion of the time that is not explicitly specified
will be substituted with the current value of that portion of the time.

=back

If multiple database management options are invoked at once, the server
runs them in this order: B<cuf<l|t|T>>

The following option is used to I<access remote servers>:

=over 8

=item B<-C> I<rhost>|I<'all'> I<cddbp_command> I<proto_lev>

Connect to the named remote site, or all 
remote sites if the word I<'all'> is specified, and execute the specified
cddb command on the remote server. The response from the remote server is 
written to stdout.

=back

The following options is used for I<key handling>:

=over 8

=item B<-k>

Generate a random 32-character hex password
string, which can be used as a key to restrict administrative access to a 
cddb server.

=item B<-P>

Generate a password to be used in validation
with a cddb server. The cddbd queries for the key and the salt on the 
commandline and returns the password. 

=back

=head1 FILES

It uses following files (apart from the database) - path relative to the config. root
(by default F</usr/local/cddbd>):
F<access>, F<passwd>, F<sites>, F<locks/*>, F<server/fuzzy_index> and F<server/log>

=head1 NOTES

Note that the active/write operations in the Windows format version of cddbd have
not been tested much.

=head1 AUTHOR

=over

=item Steve Scherf (steve@moonsoft.com)

=item freedb team (info@freedb.org)
                        
=item and various contributors

=back

=cut